Phase 3: Documentation (#142)
Ekumen-OS/lambkin: examples/beluga/README.md

  - /path/to/your/map:/data/map
  - /path/to/your/groundtruth:/data/groundtruth
```

### **2. Build the image**

####  Development

```bash
cd examples/beluga/docker
docker compose --profile development build
```

####  Production

```bash
cd examples/beluga/docker
docker compose --profile production build
```

### **3. Start the container**

Two Docker profiles are available depending on your use case.

#### Development

Mounts the repository as a volume so code changes are reflected immediately without rebuilding.

```bash
docker compose --profile development up -d
docker compose --profile development exec lambkin_dev bash
```

Inside the container:

```bash
apt-get update
rosdep install --from-paths /ws/examples/beluga beluga_ros2 --ignore-src -r -y
uv sync
uv pip install -e /ws/src/lambkin --system --break-system-packages
colcon build --base-paths /ws/examples/beluga
source install/setup.bash
```

#### Production

Builds a fully self-contained image with all dependencies pre-installed. No manual steps needed inside the container.

```bash
docker compose --profile production up -d
docker compose --profile production exec lambkin_prod bash
```

## Usage

> 

Reviewer: I suggest adding an introductory comment. Sth along the lines of "Inside the docker container/environment, run the following command..." so we are clear defining where this is expected to be executed.

Author: Solved in 8baec2d

```bash
uv run examples/beluga/beluga_benchmark.py
```

> Once complete, results are written to results/ organized by configuration (var_<number>/iter_<number>). Each iteration contains the recorded bag, TUM trajectory, and APE metrics.

Reviewer: var_<number>/iter_<number> is not rendered correctly. See:

<img width="1053" height="248" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8ff0d7ad-0395-4bf7-8318-c207aef99871" />

Applying the suggestion below should fix it:
```suggestion
Once complete, results are written to results/ organized by configuration (`var_<number>/iter_<number>`). Each iteration contains the recorded bag, TUM trajectory, and APE metrics.
```

Author: Solved in 8baec2d

* For more details on the default configuration, see the [configuration file](https://ekumen-os.github.io/beluga/packages/beluga_amcl/docs/ros2-reference.html).

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have the following installed:

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)

### Expected artifacts

Make sure you have the following reference files available before running the benchmark:

| Artifact | Description |
|---|---|
| Rosbag | Reference sensor data to replay during the benchmark |
| Map | Static map file in `.yaml` and `.pgm` format |
| Groundtruth | Reference trajectory in `.tum` format to evaluate against |

### Setup

**1. Build and start the Docker container:**

```bash
docker compose up -d lambkin_dev
docker compose exec -it lambkin_dev bash
```
Mount your reference files as volumes in `docker-compose.yml` before starting the container:

```yaml
volumes:
  - /path/to/your/rosbag:/data/rosbag
  - /path/to/your/map:/data/map
  - /path/to/your/groundtruth:/data/groundtruth

> ```

Reviewer: The docker-compose.yml volume mounting instructions appear after the command to start the container, which is the wrong orde. You'd need to edit the compose file before running docker compose up.

Author: Solved in 0526384

> **Note:** Users are responsible for mounting their own reference files. The paths inside the container should match the ones used in the benchmark script.

**2. Install ROS2 dependencies:**

```bash
rosdep install --from-paths lambkin_ros2 --ignore-src -r -y
```

**3. Install all dependencies (including lambkin):**

```bash
uv sync
```

This installs lambkin and all its dependencies into the environment. After this step, you can use `import lambkin` in any benchmark script without any additional configuration.

**4. Build the workspace:**

```bash
colcon build --symlink-install
source install/setup.bash
```

---

## Usage

### Running the benchmark

```bash
uv run examples/beluga/beluga_benchmark.py
```

By default, the benchmark runs in dry-run mode, printing the commands that would be executed without running them:

```bash
uv run examples/beluga/beluga_benchmark.py --dry-run
```

> > **Note:** Real execution is not yet supported. The `--dry-run` flag is the only supported mode at this time.

Reviewer: This seems more like a note for the SDK not the example.

Author: Solved in 2264430

> # LAMBKIN

Reviewer: Would rename the title to Beluga example or similar as all 3 readmes have the same title

Author: Solved in af01829

## Overview

LAMBKIN (Localization And Mapping Benchmarking) is a programmatic SDK for building reproducible, structured, and parallelized SLAM evaluation pipelines.

> It moves away from complex automation "glue" in favor of a clean, Python-first approach to benchmarking.

Reviewer: The Overview section re-defines LAMBKIN which is redundant if a reader arrived here from the top-level README. This section could be trimmed to just scope-setting: what this example does, not what LAMBKIN is.

Author: Solved in 2264430

# Beluga Example

> A worked example of a LAMBKIN benchmark pipeline applied to [Beluga AMCL](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga). It sweeps over sensor models and particle counts, evaluates trajectory accuracy, and aggregates results across all configurations. Ships with its own ROS2 package, Docker environment, and benchmark script.

Reviewer: Let's be very explicit that this is a ROS 2 example as the SDK can be ROS agnostic. Plus, the correct way is ROS 2 not ROS2. See https://robotics.stackexchange.com/questions/102501/ros-answers-se-migration-ros2-or-ros-2
```suggestion
A worked example of a LAMBKIN benchmark pipeline applied to [Beluga AMCL](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga) in ROS 2. It sweeps over sensor models and particle counts, evaluates trajectory accuracy, and aggregates results across all configurations. Ships with its own ROS 2 package, Docker environment, and benchmark script.
```

Author: Solved in 336cf3e

## Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and
  [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
- The following reference files available on the host:

| Artifact | Description |
|---|---|
| Rosbag | Reference sensor data to replay during the benchmark |
| Map | Static map file in `.yaml` and `.pgm` format |
| Groundtruth | Reference trajectory in `.tum` format to evaluate against |

## Setup

### **1. Configure volume mounts**

Edit `docker/docker-compose.yml` and set the host paths to your reference files:

```yaml
volumes:
  - /path/to/your/rosbag:/data/rosbag
  - /path/to/your/map:/data/map
  - /path/to/your/groundtruth:/data/groundtruth
```

### **2. Build the image**

####  Development

```bash
docker compose --profile development build
```

####  Production

```bash
docker compose --profile production build
```

### **3. Start the container**

Two Docker profiles are available depending on your use case.

> #### Development

Reviewer: The distinction between Development and Production profiles is very clear, but there's no guidance on which to choose. A sentence at the top of the section ("If you're running the benchmark as-is, use Production. If you're modifying the benchmark script, use Development.") would save readers from having to deduce this.

Author: Solved in 336cf3e

Mounts the repository as a volume so code changes are reflected immediately without rebuilding.

```bash
docker compose --profile development up -d
docker compose --profile development exec lambkin_dev bash
```

Inside the container:

```bash
apt-get update
rosdep install --from-paths /ws/examples/beluga beluga_ros2 --ignore-src -r -y
uv sync
colcon build --symlink-install
source install/setup.bash
```

#### Production

Builds a fully self-contained image with all dependencies pre-installed. No manual steps needed inside the container.

```bash
docker compose --profile production up -d
docker compose --profile production exec lambkin_prod bash
```

## Usage

```bash
uv run examples/beluga/beluga_benchmark.py

> ```

Reviewer: The **Usage** section ends abruptly with just the run command and no indication of what to expect e.g. what output gets produced, where to find it, or what success looks like. Even one sentence would help close the loop.

Author: Solved in 336cf3e
